Rev. Daniel W. Hoyt, author of the following poems, was born in East
Haverhill, Mass., August 12, 1845, son of Daniel Cate and Lydia (Williams)
Hoyt. He is a descendant of John Hoyt, one of the first settlers of Amesbury,
Mass., on both his father's and mother's side.

Mr. Hoyt was enrolled, as a volunteer, in Company M, Fourth Massachusetts
Heavy Artillery, August 23, 1864, and was honorably discharged at Fort
Richardson, Virginia, June 17, 1865, at the close of the War. He is, at
present, Chaplain of Post 10, G. A. R.

He attended the New London Literary and Scientific Institution (now Colby
Academy), of New London, N. H. In 1865 and 1866, and entered Brown University,
Providence R. I. in 1867. He was President of his class in his Freshman year
and became a charter member of Delta Upsilon Fraternity. He was graduated in
1871, having been chosen Class Poet.

The next three years were spent at Newton Theological Institution, from which
school he was graduated in 1874.

Mr. Hoyt was married October 21, 1874 to Miss Ella Dexter Mowry, of
Providence, R. I. She was born in Northbridge, Mass., January 17, 1848, the
daughter of John Dexter Mowry and Abigail Baylies (Prentice) Mowry. She died
January 17, 1922. Mr. and Mrs. Hoyt had five children: Mabel, Abbie Louise,
Enna Christine (Mr. Delbert L. Judd), John Irving (who married Marion C.
Davis), and Ruth Williams (Mrs. Nelson H. Wheeler).

Mr. Hoyt's first pastorate was in Amherst, Mass., from 1874 to 1880. From 1880
to 1889 he was pastor of the Baptist Church of Millbury, Mass.

In 1889 he went to Worcester as City Missionary for the Baptist City Mission
Board, and was instrumental in founding the Adams Square Baptist Church, of
which he became the first pastor. He resigned in 1898 and devoted his
attention to farming for a few years.

From 1906 to 1910 and again from 1912 to 1918 he was pastor of the Baptist
Church at North Oxford, Mass.

Most of the following poems were written by Mr. Hoyt for his family or
friends. "A Sermon in Rhyme" was written in Amherst, Mass., and read one
evening at a gathering of friends in honor of one of the young ladies
connected with the church. This poem has often been printed, though seldom
with the name of the author attached. Judging by the clippings, letters, etc.,
received by Mr. Hoyt, in connection with this poem, it has proved helpful and
an inspiration to many.
